Example python files (#1191)
G-Research/armada: client/python/examples/README.md

# Python Client Examples

Currently there are three example files:

- [simple.py](#simple.py)
- [general.py](#general.py)
- [async_logging.py](#async_logging.py)

There are also some codeblocks with useful code snippets:

- [Using Basic Auth](#using-basic-auth)

## Setup

Please see the [python client docs](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/blob/master/client/python/README.md) for getting the client setup.

### Running the examples

Each example has three enviromental variables for setup

```bash
export ARMADA_SERVER=localhost
export ARMADA_PORT=443
export DISABLE_SSL=true
```

You can then simply run one of the examples

> ```bash

Reviewer: Are you missing an explanation of how to create a python virtual environment and how to install client to an environment?

Reviewer: True but if any tries to copy your code in this PR it will fail without any notice of why that is the case?

Author: I get what you mean, I would assume that if a user is checking the example README they would already have it installed, but I understand that this is not always the case. I will link to https://github.com/G-Research/armada/blob/master/client/python/README.md directly as a guide for installing?

python3 simple.py
```

## Example Files

### simple.py

> Example of using the armada client to create a queue, jobset and job,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of using the Armada client to create a queue, jobset and job,
```

then watch for the job to succeed or fail.

#### Walkthrough

```py
def create_dummy_job(client: ArmadaClient):
```

> Armada uses kubernetes to control jobs, so we need to define a podspec that are job will use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Armada uses Kubernetes to control jobs, so we need to define a podspec that our job will use.
```

# Needed to allow for the delay in the job_set being created
time.sleep(2)
```

As the code documents, we need the sleep to wait for the job_set to be created, allowing for `client.get_job_events_stream` to not fail.

```py
try:
    client.create_queue(name=queue, priority_factor=1)

# Handle the error we expect to maybe occur
except grpc.RpcError as e:
    code = e.code()
    if code == grpc.StatusCode.ALREADY_EXISTS:
        print(f"Queue {queue} already exists")
        client.update_queue(name=queue, priority_factor=1)
    else:
        raise e
```

For any grpc-related errors, more detail can be found by checking the grpc.RpcError object. In this case, we use it to ignore if a queue has already been created or not.

### async_logging.py

Demonstrates how to run jobs, and also log all changes to that job or job_set in realtime concurrently.

#### Walkthrough

```py
def watch_job_set(client: ArmadaClient, queue: str, job_set_id):
```

Watches all changes on a job_set. It attempts to connect multiple times instead of sleeping like in `general.py`. It also demonstrates using the clients `unmarshal_event_response()` method to better access the event object.

```py

> def watch_queue(client, queue):

Reviewer: We should ask if this would be useful before we put in examples?

Author: Maybe discuss this on Wednesday?

Reviewer: Sure but I don't know if any of us have a good answer for you.  I'd ask the GR Armada team about this.

Reviewer: I talked with @d80tb7 and I think we should remove watch_queue everywhere.

Author: Okay. I think its just used in `async_logging` so I will remove that shortly

# Python Client Examples

Currently there are five example files:

> - [simple.py](#simplepy)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, you have the info I want below, but I think you should just make the actual-primary-name you refer to the examples as descriptive.

> - [Intro to using the Python Client](#simplepy)

Reviewer 2: Since you still call these "simple.py" and similar below, consider adding those names here
e.g.
```suggestion
- [Intro to using the Python Client - simple.py](#simplepy)
```

> ```bash
> export ARMADA_SERVER=localhost
> export ARMADA_PORT=443
> export DISABLE_SSL=true
>```

> You can then simply run one of the examples
> ```bash
> python3 simple.py
> ```

## Example Files

### simple.py

[Link to File](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/tree/master/client/python/examples/simple.py)

Example of using the Armada client to create a queue, jobset and job,
then watch for the job to succeed or fail.

#### Walkthrough

> Armada uses Kubernetes to control jobs, so we need to define a podspec that our jobs will use.
> ```py
> def create_dummy_job(client: ArmadaClient):
> ```

> If you are using a remote server, secure_channel should be used to ensure that all infomation is encrypted.
> ```py
> if DISABLE_SSL:
>     channel = grpc.insecure_channel(f"{HOST}:{PORT}")
> else:
>     channel_credentials = grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()
>     channel = grpc.secure_channel(
>         f"{HOST}:{PORT}",
>         channel_credentials,
>     )
> ```

> All queues need a priority factor to be created, which is used to determine the order in which jobs are run.
> ```py
> client.create_queue(name=queue, priority_factor=1)
> ```

### general.py

> [Link to File](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/tree/master/client/python/examples/general.py)

Reviewer: These links don't work if you try to view the markdown.  Maybe you should just use a relative link and not the branch name?

Author: They won't work until the code is merged, but I can use relative links now

# Python Client Examples

Currently there are three example files:

- [simple.py](#simple.py)
- [general.py](#general.py)
- [queues.py](#queuespy)
- [cancelling.py](#cancellingpy)
- [monitor.py](#monitor.py)

There are also some codeblocks with useful code snippets:

- [Using Basic Auth](#using-basic-auth)

## Setup

Please see the [python client docs](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/blob/master/client/python/README.md) for getting the client setup.

### Running the examples

Each example has three enviromental variables for setup

```bash
export ARMADA_SERVER=localhost
export ARMADA_PORT=443
export DISABLE_SSL=true
```

You can then simply run one of the examples

```bash
python3 simple.py
```

## Example Files

### simple.py

[Link to File](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/tree/master/client/python/examples/simple.py)

Example of using the Armada client to create a queue, jobset and job,
then watch for the job to succeed or fail.

#### Walkthrough

```py
def create_dummy_job(client: ArmadaClient):
```

> Armada uses Kubernetes to control jobs, so we need to define a podspec that are job will use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Armada uses Kubernetes to control jobs, so we need to define a podspec that our jobs will use.
```

# Python Client Examples

> Currently there are three example files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently there are five example files:
```

- [simple.py](#simple.py)
- [general.py](#general.py)
- [queues.py](#queuespy)
- [cancelling.py](#cancellingpy)
- [monitor.py](#monitor.py)

> There are also some codeblocks with useful code snippets:

Reviewer: I’d make this reflect what you trying to show with auth ie this section could reflect examples with more complicated auth

### queues.py

[Link to File](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/tree/master/client/python/examples/queues.py)

A full example of creating a queue with all options.

#### Walkthrough

```py
subject = Subject(type="Group", name="group1")
permissions = Permissions(subjects=[subject], verbs=["cancel", "reprioritize"])
```

Permissions are used to control who can do what with the queue.

```py
resource_limits = {"cpu": 1.0, "memory": 1.0}
```

Resource limits are set similarly to [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#resource-requests-and-limits-of-pod-and-container)

### cancelling.py

[Link to File](https://github.com/G-Research/armada/tree/master/client/python/examples/cancelling.py)

A full example of cancelling jobs, either with their job id, or
the job-set id.

#### Walkthrough

```py
job_id = resp1.job_response_items[0].job_id
client.cancel_jobs(job_id=job_id)
```

To cancel a specific job, its job_id must be read from the `client.submit_jobs` response, and then it can be cancelled.

```py
client.cancel_jobs(queue=queue, job_set_id=job_set_id1)
```

> You can also cancel all jobs on a job_set with its queue and job_set id.

Reviewer: Show an example here also of that?  I think cancelling by jobset is the more common use case imo.
